# 	Water Scarcity in Palestine and The Middle East: Using Data Envelopment Analysis as a Predictive Tool

### JR Erskine - 4/29/2020

​	Water scarcity in Palestine leaves Palestinians with only half the minimum water needed per day. The WHO says that the average water availability to someone in Palestine is .5l/c/d which is half of the minimum amount needed. This is a serious problem as those living in Palestine are unable to focus on meeting other needs crucial to development if they can’t get enough water each day. Water, being the most basic of resources, is required for both domestic and economic growth - without enough water the odds of timely and successful development in the region are significantly reduced. Especially given the arid environment in which Palestine and Israel are located, water becomes an even more vital resource and has led people to take up arms in order to obtain it. Although access to clean and sustainable water resources remains absent from the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, water continues to be a central, life giving, resource. Without water, it becomes impossible to achieve any of the other goals. While people can survive months with little to no food, from a biological perspective, humans perish within 3 days without access to water. After 2 days, humans have trouble moving any significant distance without fainting. This deep biological reliance on water is present in every organism on earth, and humans are no different(Maldarelli, 2019). This makes water of paramount importance when discussing development and sustainability. Nations that lack water or easy access to water have higher infant mortality rates, a common measure of a country's development, as well as remain vulnerable from economic and security perspectives(Ezeh et. al, 2014). This is of particular importance in arid regions which lack reliable sources of water, particularly The Middle East - with particular focus on Israel and Palestine. As both states vie for the same water resources, shortages are common. These shortages increase political tensions between the two states, furthering the security risks in the region as both states have remained in a volatile stalemate for many years. On top of this, the governmental and political situations in Israel and The Middle East provide the perfect fuel for water based conflict. This volatility and lack of resource security can be mapped through a variety of methods, from "Data Envelopment Analysis" (DEA) which utilizes efficiency focused data to draw conclusions, to geographical mapping data which allows researchers to view the region from a wholesale perspective.